# Architectural Analysis of the Ripple JavaScript Framework

## Introduction

Ripple is a new experimental UI framework (written in TypeScript)
created by Dominic Gannaway (known for Inferno, React core
contributions, and Svelte
5)[\[1\]](https://dev.to/ramunarasinga-11/ripple-the-elegant-typescript-ui-framework-11n4#:~:text=Personally%2C%20I%20,see%20what%20I%20was%20cooking)[\[2\]](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=45063176#:~:text=pier25%20%20%2045%20,46%20%5B%E2%80%93).
It is described as *"a TypeScript UI framework that takes the best parts
of React, Solid and Svelte and combines them into one
package."*[\[3\]](https://dev.to/ramunarasinga-11/ripple-the-elegant-typescript-ui-framework-11n4#:~:text=Ripple%20is%20a%20TypeScript%20UI,combines%20them%20into%20one%20package)
In essence, Ripple introduces a component model with fine-grained
reactivity and a custom JSX-like templating syntax. The framework is
*"JS/TS-first rather than HTML-first,"* using a dedicated `.ripple` file
extension that allows writing components in a superset of
TypeScript/JSX[\[4\]](https://dev.to/ramunarasinga-11/ripple-the-elegant-typescript-ui-framework-11n4#:~:text=Ripple%20was%20designed%20to%20be,humans%2C%20but%20also%20for%20LLMs).
This design lets Ripple implement its own compile-time transformations
and language features while integrating smoothly with TypeScript's type
checking and editor support. Ripple is still in early alpha (not
production-ready)[\[5\]](https://dev.to/ramunarasinga-11/ripple-the-elegant-typescript-ui-framework-11n4#:~:text=,not%20be%20used%20in%20production),
but it offers an intriguing mix of ideas from popular frameworks, aiming
to improve developer experience (DX) and runtime efficiency.

**Key Innovations Overview:** Ripple's standout features include a
built-in reactive state system using `$`-prefixed variables, a
**fine-grained rendering model** that avoids virtual DOM
diffing[\[6\]](https://dev.to/ramunarasinga-11/ripple-the-elegant-typescript-ui-framework-11n4#:~:text=%2A%20JSX,specific%20enhancements),
and a JSX-based template syntax extended to support *native control flow
constructs* (`if/else`, loops, `try/catch`) directly within component
templates[\[7\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=If%20statements)[\[8\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=For%20statements).
It also provides conveniences like component-local CSS styling, two-way
binding via special prop syntax, and reactive versions of data
structures (arrays, sets, maps). In the sections below, we analyze these
design choices -- how Ripple manages state and DOM updates, its
performance approach, code structure and extensibility -- and compare
them to the established solutions in React, SolidJS, and Svelte. We'll
highlight both the strengths of Ripple's approach and the potential
trade-offs or limitations from a framework design perspective.

## Reactivity Model and State Management

**Signal-Based Reactive State:** Ripple employs a **fine-grained
reactivity system** similar to *signals* in SolidJS or Svelte's
reactivity (Svelte 5) -- but it makes reactivity implicit and ergonomic.
Any variable defined with a `$` prefix inside a component becomes a
*reactive signal*
automatically[\[9\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=Variables%20prefixed%20with%20,automatically%20reactive).
For example:

    let $count = 0;
    $count++;    // Updates automatically trigger re-renders[9]

Here `$count` is a reactive state variable; mutating it (e.g.
`$count++`) will automatically propagate changes to the UI without an
explicit setState call or setter
function[\[10\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=let%20%24name%20%3D%20%27World%27%3B%20let,count%20%3D%200).
This is a key difference from React's state (which requires calling
`setState` or using hooks) -- in Ripple, **assignment is reactivity**.
Under the hood, the compiler/runtime tracks `$count` as a reactive
entity (likely wrapping it in a signal or proxy) so that any update can
trigger the necessary DOM updates. A developer does not need to import
or call a special API to create a signal; the `$` notation is the hint
to the compiler. This approach eliminates boilerplate and makes state
updates feel like simple JavaScript operations, aligning with Ripple's
philosophy of "JS-first" design.

**Derived Reactives:** Ripple also makes it trivial to define **derived
state**. If you declare another `$` variable as an expression of
existing reactive values, it automatically stays in sync. For example:

    let $count = 0;
    let $double = $count * 2;

In this case, `$double` is *derived* from `$count` and will update
whenever `$count`
changes[\[11\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=Derived%20values%20are%20simply%20,combined%20different%20parts%20of%20state).
There is no need to explicitly set up a memo or effect; the framework's
reactivity tracks that `$double` depends on `$count`. This is analogous
to Svelte's reactive declarations or Solid's `createMemo`, but in Ripple
it's just a natural variable declaration with `$`. It allows writing
formulas for state directly in the component logic. Ripple's compiler
likely transforms such declarations into computed signals under the
hood. One trade-off of this implicit derivation is that it must manage
execution order and dependencies internally -- e.g. ensuring that if
multiple reactive variables depend on each other, updates happen in the
correct order. Ripple provides an `untrack()` utility to handle cases
where you want to break automatic reactivity for an
assignment[\[12\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=Now%20given%20,reactivity%20in%20those%20cases).
For instance, if a prop `$startingCount` drives an internal `$count`,
one might wrap it in `untrack` to only set the initial value and not
update on every prop
change[\[12\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=Now%20given%20,reactivity%20in%20those%20cases).
This indicates that while Ripple automates most reactivity, developers
still have tools to control update propagation and avoid unwanted
recomputation (similar to Solid's `untrack` or React's functional
updates to avoid stale closures).

**Reactive Data Structures:** In addition to primitives, Ripple extends
reactivity to object properties and collections. Any object property
prefixed with `$` becomes reactive, so you can have an object like
`let counter = { $current: 0 }` and increment `counter.$current++` to
trigger
updates[\[13\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=Object%20properties%20prefixed%20with%20,are%20also%20automatically%20reactive).
This is essentially a lightweight way to make *observable objects*.
Furthermore, Ripple introduces specialized classes `RippleArray`,
`RippleSet`, and `RippleMap` which mirror the JavaScript `Array`, `Set`,
and `Map` but with reactive
capabilities[\[14\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=However%2C%20if%20you%20need%20the,reactive%20array%20that%20Ripple%20provides)[\[15\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=).
For example, a `RippleArray` allows you to push or splice items and have
the UI respond automatically, whereas a normal array would not trigger
an update unless you replace the whole array reference. With a
`RippleArray`, even the length property can be observed via a special
`$length`
property[\[14\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=However%2C%20if%20you%20need%20the,reactive%20array%20that%20Ripple%20provides).
Similarly, `RippleSet`/`RippleMap` provide a `$size` reactive property
and ensure their mutation methods can trigger
reactions[\[15\]\[16\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=). The
inclusion of these structures is a design choice to improve
*ergonomics*: it spares developers from manual workarounds (like copying
arrays or using immutable patterns) to signal a change, at the cost of
introducing custom collection types. The trade-off here is that
developers must remember to use `RippleArray` (or mark array elements
with `$`) if they want automatic reactivity on array operations. It's an
extra API surface, but it closes a common gap in reactive systems
(normal JS arrays aren't reactive by default in frameworks). Other
frameworks handle this differently -- for instance, Svelte reassigns the
array to trigger updates, and SolidJS provides a `createStore` for deep
reactive data or encourages immutable patterns. Ripple's approach offers
a clear, if somewhat *bespoke*, solution for mutable data structures. It
potentially simplifies state management for dynamic lists, but could
introduce slight overhead by wrapping native structures and edge cases
(e.g. forgetting to use `$length` instead of `length` will not trigger
reactivity[\[14\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=However%2C%20if%20you%20need%20the,reactive%20array%20that%20Ripple%20provides)).

**Effects and Side-Effects:** Ripple's reactivity model includes an
explicit concept of **effects** as well. The framework provides an
`effect()` function to run side-effects whenever some reactive state
changes[\[17\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=Effects)[\[18\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=effect%28%28%29%20%3D).
This is similar to Solid's `createEffect` or React's useEffect (though
React's fires after render, while Solid/Ripple effects run immediately
as signals change). For example, one can write:

    effect(() => {
      console.log($count);
    });

inside a component, and it will log the `$count` value on each
change[\[19\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=export%20component%20App%28%29%20,count%20%3D%200).
The effect automatically tracks `$count` because it's accessed inside,
so no dependency array is needed (unlike React). This continues the
pattern: **any read of a** `$` **variable establishes a dependency**.
This auto-tracking makes it easier to write reactive logic but requires
understanding that simply referencing a reactive in a function ties that
function to the variable's updates. From a design perspective, this
aligns with how Solid and Svelte's reactive statements work, providing
powerful fine-grained subscriptions. The potential downside is that
debugging can be tricky if you're not aware of these implicit
dependencies -- but Ripple's approach is quite transparent due to the
`$` notation marking what is reactive. Also, because Ripple ties
reactivity to the component lifecycle (you cannot define reactive vars
at the module
top-level[\[20\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=)), it can
manage effect disposal when components unmount. This prevents leaks -- a
known challenge in signal-based systems -- by likely disposing all
reactive computations created during a component when that component is
removed from the DOM.

**State Management Trade-offs:** From a framework design standpoint,
Ripple's implicit signals trade some **explicitness for convenience**.
In SolidJS, for example, a developer must call `createSignal` and use a
setter to update, which makes the reactive nature very explicit, whereas
Ripple hides that behind language syntax. This lowers the barrier to
using reactivity (you just declare variables normally), but it means the
*compiler* must do a lot of work -- converting those declarations and
updates into actual signal creation and update calls. The risk is that
developers might occasionally be confused about why something isn't
updating (e.g. they forgot a `$` on a variable or prop). However, since
the `$` is visually explicit in the code, it serves as a clear marker of
reactivity (much like Svelte's `$:` label for reactive statements or the
`$store` notation for Svelte stores). Another trade-off is that
introducing a custom reactivity system means **learning curve** and
potential integration issues -- e.g. how easy is it to use Ripple's
reactive state outside of components or in non-UI logic? Ripple
addresses part of this by allowing reactive values to be *transported*
outside components using plain functions: you can pass `$` variables
into a function (wrapped in an array or object) and return derived `$`
values from
it[\[21\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=import%20,ripple)[\[22\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=function%20createDouble%28,2).
This pattern enables creating reusable logic (like custom hooks) that
remain reactive, a bit like calling a SolidJS `createSignal` in a
function and returning it. It shows that **composability** of state is
considered -- you're not locked into component-defined state only, which
is important for scalability in larger apps. Overall, Ripple's state
management is an innovation in *developer ergonomics*, aiming to combine
the reactivity of Solid/Svelte with the familiarity of mutable JS state.
The challenge for such a system is to ensure the magic remains
predictable. Ripple seems to mitigate unpredictability by keeping
reactive scope local to components and using straightforward rules
(prefix `$` means reactive, everything else is inert). In the next
section, we will see how this reactive state model ties into Ripple's
rendering and DOM update mechanism.

## Rendering and DOM Update Mechanism

**Fine-Grained Rendering (No Virtual DOM):** Ripple forgoes a virtual
DOM diffing approach in favor of **fine-grained DOM updates driven by
reactivity**. In practice, this means when a reactive state changes,
Ripple updates only the specific DOM nodes or attributes that depend on
that state, rather than re-rendering an entire component output. The
framework advertises *"fine-grain rendering, with industry-leading
performance and memory
usage"*[\[6\]](https://dev.to/ramunarasinga-11/ripple-the-elegant-typescript-ui-framework-11n4#:~:text=%2A%20JSX,specific%20enhancements),
indicating that its updates are very granular and efficient. This design
is directly inspired by frameworks like SolidJS and Svelte, which also
avoid a heavyweight VDOM. For example, if you have a template
`<span>{$count}</span>` and `$count` changes, Ripple will update the
text content of that `<span>` in place. It does **not** need to re-run
the component function to get a new JSX tree (as React would) nor
produce a diff of virtual nodes. This yields significant performance
gains for frequent state changes or large applications, since the amount
of work on each update is minimized. It also tends to use less memory
because Ripple doesn't allocate JavaScript objects for virtual DOM nodes
-- it works with real DOM nodes directly or through minimal
indirections.

Under the hood, Ripple's compiler likely transforms the component's JSX
template into instructions or functions that create DOM nodes and set up
watchers. For instance, creating a `<button>{$count}</button>` might
compile to code that creates a button element, inserts a text node, and
establishes an effect that updates that text node whenever `$count`
changes. This is similar to how Svelte compiles templates (Svelte writes
imperative code to update DOM on state change) and how Solid compiles
JSX (Solid uses `JSX` as syntax, but a Babel plugin turns it into calls
to `createSignal`, `onCleanup`, etc., and real DOM creation). The result
is that **Ripple does not have a concept of re-rendering a component**
in response to state -- instead it reacts to state changes in a targeted
way. This is a fundamental architectural choice: it sacrifices the
simplicity of React's "recompute the whole tree and diff it" model for a
more complex setup of fine-grained observers. The trade-off is mostly on
the framework implementation side (managing dependencies and updates is
more complex), but it pays dividends in runtime efficiency.

One consequence of fine-grained updates is that **component functions in
Ripple are not called repeatedly** after initial render. They execute
once to set up the structure and reactive connections. This is different
from React (which calls a functional component on each render) or even
Svelte's slightly chunkier update blocks. Instead, after initial mount,
Ripple relies on the reactive graph. This can improve performance and
also avoids resetting local variables unnecessarily. However, it means
developers must think a bit differently -- e.g. if you declare a
non-reactive local variable in a Ripple component, changing a reactive
state won't re-run that code. This is generally a good thing (it
prevents unnecessary work), but it requires understanding that component
code is not a rerun-on-each-update function but more like an
initialization plus a bunch of reactive subscriptions. In practice, this
aligns with SolidJS's model and is quite workable, just a mental model
shift for those coming from React.

**DOM Management and Updates:** Ripple's approach to updating the DOM
leverages direct DOM API calls and possibly efficient reconciliations
for lists. Notably, Ripple allows writing a loop directly in the
template (using a `for...of` syntax) to render a list of
items[\[23\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=For%20statements).
Unlike React, it does **not require a** `key` **for list
items**[\[24\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=You%20can%20render%20collections%20using,prop%20like%20other%20frameworks)
-- which suggests Ripple's runtime or compiler has its own way of
handling identity or simply always appends/prepends without diffing. In
the example:

    <ul>
      for (const item of items) {
        <li>{item.text}</li>
      }
    </ul>

Ripple's compiler will generate code to iterate `items` and create
`<li>` elements for each. If `items` is a reactive array (e.g. a
`RippleArray`), adding a new item (via `items.push(...)`) will trigger
the framework to append a new `<li>` for
it[\[25\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=component%20Numbers%28%29%20,1%2C%202%2C%203)[\[26\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=,button%3E).
The framework likely knows that `items.$length` changed and can update
accordingly. Not needing manual keys hints that Ripple might handle list
updates either by tracking each item's position or simply by
re-rendering the loop whenever the array length changes. It might, for
example, dispose and regenerate the list on changes (simple but
potentially inefficient for large lists), or implement an incremental
update strategy. Since it's early days, the simplest implementation
could be *re-run the loop whenever the array changes*, using the
reactive array's change as a trigger. That would trade some performance
in large lists (versus a keyed diff which only inserts one element) for
simplicity. However, because the array's contents themselves can be
reactive (each `item.text` could be a `$` variable), Ripple can still
update item content without re-looping if just the text changed. The
heavy lifting is only when the structure (number of items) changes.

Ripple also supports conditional rendering with standard `if/else`
statements in the
template[\[27\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=component%20Truthy%28,div%3E).
For example:

    <div>
      if (showDetails) {
        <DetailsComponent />
      } else {
        <p>No details</p>
      }
    </div>

This will include or exclude the `<DetailsComponent>` based on the
reactive `showDetails` value. The presence of a normal `if` block in JSX
is **not** allowed in React or Solid's standard JSX; it's a special
capability of Ripple's compiler. The benefit is clear: it's very
intuitive for developers -- you use the language's native control flow
instead of a framework-specific syntax or ternary expressions. A Hacker
News commenter noted that *"the ability to output JSX between native
control flow is the real cool part
here"*[\[28\]](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=45063176#:~:text=The%20ability%20to%20output%20JSX,it%20looks%20kinda%20like%20Rezact).
It makes the template logic feel like writing normal code, which can
improve readability for complex conditions or loops. The trade-off is on
the implementation side: the compiler must translate these blocks into
dynamic behavior. Likely, Ripple compiles an `if` block into a reactive
effect that adds or removes DOM nodes when the condition changes.
Similarly, a `try/catch` in the template is compiled to an error
boundary construct -- if an error is thrown in rendering the `try`
section, Ripple catches it and renders the `catch` block
instead[\[29\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=Try%20statements)[\[30\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=try%20%7B%20,reportError%28e).
This provides a built-in error boundary mechanism by piggybacking on
JavaScript's exception handling, which is novel and convenient (most
frameworks implement error boundaries via special components or
patterns, not literal try/catch in JSX). Again, the design choice is to
make the syntax **familiar and expressive** at the cost of requiring
custom compilation.

**Lifecycle and DOM Access:** Ripple doesn't use class-based components
or lifecycle methods (like React's old class APIs), but it does allow
direct DOM access and mounting/unmounting hooks through a feature called
**decorators**. Using a syntax `<div {@use someFunction}>` attaches a
function to a DOM element's
creation[\[31\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=Ripple%20provides%20a%20consistent%20way,to%20the%20underlying%20DOM%20element)[\[32\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=const%20ref%20%3D%20%28node%29%20%3D,node).
This function receives the element and can perform setup, and it can
return a cleanup function to be called when the element is
removed[\[32\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=const%20ref%20%3D%20%28node%29%20%3D,node).
This is essentially Ripple's take on *refs* or *action/attach* hooks
(identical to Svelte's `use:` directive and similar to React's `ref`
callback)[\[31\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=Ripple%20provides%20a%20consistent%20way,to%20the%20underlying%20DOM%20element).
For example, one can capture a DOM node or initialize a third-party
library on that element in the `@use` function. Ripple's approach here
is quite robust: since the function can return a teardown callback, you
have a built-in way to clean up subscriptions or event listeners, etc.,
when the element
unmounts[\[32\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=const%20ref%20%3D%20%28node%29%20%3D,node).
This indicates Ripple has a notion of mounting/unmounting under the hood
(likely integrated with how it inserts/removes nodes in if/for blocks),
and it ensures resources can be freed -- an important aspect for
long-lived apps. The design is clearly influenced by Svelte's API (the
documentation even says it's *"identical to* `@attach` *in Svelte
5"*[\[31\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=Ripple%20provides%20a%20consistent%20way,to%20the%20underlying%20DOM%20element)).
From a framework design perspective, this is a wise reuse of known
patterns -- it avoids reinventing how to handle DOM refs and side
effects. It also shows how having a custom compiler enables a
**consistent syntax** for such needs (here using `{@use ...}`) rather
than relying purely on imperative code.

**Event Handling:** Ripple's components use an event prop convention
identical to React's: e.g. `onClick={handler}` attaches a click
event[\[33\]](https://www.reddit.com/r/webdev/comments/1n3f49s/new_frontend_framework_just_dropped/#:~:text=%3Cbutton%20onClick%3D%7B%28%29%20%3D%3E%20%24count,button%3E%20%3C%2Fdiv).
This is natural since Ripple's template looks like JSX. One notable
detail: Ripple automatically **delegates some events** for performance,
as noted in the docs (certain events are attached at a higher level to
reduce listener
count)[\[34\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=,Ripple%20to%20improve%20runtime%20performance).
React does event delegation at the document level for most events;
Ripple likely does something similar for events that bubble (like
clicks) to avoid adding many listeners. This is an optimization that
doesn't affect user code but shows Ripple borrows from React's playbook
in terms of DOM performance. Another detail is the support for capturing
phase events via `onEventCapture`
naming[\[35\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=,%60onKeyDown),
which mirrors React's API. This familiarity would make it easy for React
developers to adopt Ripple's event system. The event handling in Ripple
is purely declarative (no need for `addEventListener` manually), and it
presumably works by the compiler creating those listeners when setting
up the DOM or by a lightweight runtime doing so.

**DOM Updates Trade-offs:** The fine-grained DOM update approach is
excellent for performance, but a complexity trade-off is that
**component boundaries are less significant**. In Ripple, components do
not necessarily encapsulate update cycles (since a parent's reactive
state can directly update a child's DOM if passed down). This isn't a
problem -- in fact it's often beneficial -- but it means traditional
shouldComponentUpdate or React's memoization of components isn't
relevant. Instead, performance tuning is more about controlling signal
granularity. In frameworks like Solid or Ripple, a common performance
question is how many signals is too many, or how to batch updates.
Ripple likely batches synchronous updates automatically (many signal
libraries batch by default or via a microtask queue) to avoid redundant
DOM work. The documentation doesn't explicitly mention scheduling or
batching, but given the author's experience, it's plausible that Ripple
batches multiple \$ assignments in the same tick (similar to Svelte's
`$:` reactivity running at microtask timing). This is speculative -- if
not implemented, it could be an area for improvement (to avoid excessive
reflows when multiple reactive props change together).

Another consideration is large lists: without keys, updating items in
the middle or reordering might be less efficient or predictable. If
Ripple currently re-generates list DOM on changes, that could be a
performance hit for very large lists (where React with keys would
surgically update). However, fine-grained systems can also do better by
tracking list item signals individually. It's an area that likely will
evolve -- trade-off between simplicity (re-render list) and complexity
(diff algorithm). Since Ripple is in alpha, these details might not be
fully optimized yet. But for typical use (appending/prepending lists,
conditional blocks, etc.), the performance should already be very
competitive thanks to skipping the diff phase entirely.

In summary, Ripple's rendering model is a modern "signals + compiler"
approach: UI updates are pushed directly from state changes to DOM
updates. This provides **high performance and low latency updates**, and
avoids unnecessary work. The cost is a more complex implementation and
the necessity of a build step (you can't run `.ripple` files without the
compiler). For developers, the model requires understanding reactive
execution, but Ripple's design tries to keep it straightforward (using
normal code structures and marking reactives clearly). Next, we'll look
at how the framework's overall structure and design impacts
extensibility and how it compares to other frameworks' architecture.

## Code Structure and Modularity

**Framework Composition:** The Ripple project is organized as a monorepo
with multiple packages (e.g., core runtime, compiler, Vite plugin,
VSCode extension, etc.), reflecting a separation of concerns. The
`.ripple` file format necessitates a compiler (or transpiler) that
translates Ripple components into standard JavaScript. Internally, this
likely consists of a parser that can handle the extended syntax (the
`component` keyword, the inline control flow, `$` reactivity markers,
etc.), and a code generator that emits efficient JS code. By introducing
a new extension and custom compiler, Ripple can implement features that
standard JSX/TypeScript cannot do on its own. This is similar to
Svelte's approach with its compiler. The **trade-off** is that the
framework must maintain this compilation toolchain and keep it
compatible with the evolving JavaScript/TypeScript standards. It also
means users have to use specific build tooling (currently a Vite plugin
is provided for
Ripple[\[36\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=Feel%20free%20to%20play%20around,the%20repo%2C%20you%20can%20then)).
The project already provides a VSCode extension for syntax highlighting,
diagnostics, and
IntelliSense[\[37\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=VSCode%20Extension),
as well as Prettier
support[\[38\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=memory%20usage%20,modules),
which indicates a commendable focus on developer experience despite
being new. Good tooling can mitigate the pain of using a custom file
format by making the editing experience smooth.

**JS/TS-First Design:** Unlike Svelte (which is often described as an
*"HTML-first"* framework, where the single-file component is
structurally like an HTML template plus script), Ripple is explicitly
*"JS/TS-first"*[\[4\]](https://dev.to/ramunarasinga-11/ripple-the-elegant-typescript-ui-framework-11n4#:~:text=Ripple%20was%20designed%20to%20be,humans%2C%20but%20also%20for%20LLMs).
In practice, this means a Ripple component is written as a function body
that contains JSX markup and imperative code together, all within
TypeScript's syntax. One benefit is **full TypeScript integration**:
because `.ripple` is a superset of TS, the developer gets type checking
on props and state, autocompletion, etc., *throughout* the component,
even inside the JSX. For example, you can define
`component Button(props: { text: string }) { … }` and VSCode will know
`props.text` is a string inside your
template[\[39\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=Define%20reusable%20components%20with%20the,a%20JavaScript%20statement%2C%20as%20shown).
This strong typing and editor support is a significant advantage over
some frameworks that require additional effort for TS (Svelte has
`<script lang="ts">` and typing, but it has its own intricacies).
Ripple's choice to piggyback on TS also suggests easier
**extensibility** for developers: they can use any TypeScript code or
import other libraries into component logic naturally. There's no need
for special directives for loops or conditionals (since you use real
`for` and `if`). This uniformity of language can reduce the cognitive
load -- a developer is essentially writing TypeScript and JSX, not
learning a new template DSL, aside from the `$` notation and a few
Ripple-specific conventions.

**Modularity and Extensibility:** In terms of framework extensibility
(for maintainers or advanced users), Ripple's architecture of separate
packages implies that one could potentially use parts of it in
isolation. For instance, the reactive core (signals/effects) could
theoretically be used outside of the Ripple compiler if it's exposed,
similar to how one can use Solid's `signal` primitives or Svelte's
stores independently. The Ripple runtime likely includes functions like
`effect`, `untrack`, `createContext`, and classes like
`RippleArray`[\[21\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=import%20,ripple)[\[14\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=However%2C%20if%20you%20need%20the,reactive%20array%20that%20Ripple%20provides).
These could be seen as a mini reactive library. However, the real power
of Ripple emerges when combined with its compiler output -- it's
designed as an integrated system. The **code structure** (with a clear
separation between compile-time and runtime) makes the framework **more
maintainable** in the long run, since optimizations or changes in the
compiler (e.g., adding SSR support, or new syntax sugar) can be done
without altering the runtime API, and vice versa. It also means the
framework can iterate on its language design somewhat independently --
as long as the compiled result conforms to the runtime's expectations.

That said, because Ripple invents a new component syntax, it's
inherently less *interoperable* with other frameworks at the component
level. You can't directly drop a `.ripple` component into a React or Vue
project (you'd have to compile it and possibly wrap it). There was
already an issue raised about Web Components
integration[\[40\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple/issues/158#:~:text=GitHub%20github,Design%20ripples%20%C2%B7%20ripplejs%2Fripple)[\[41\]](https://www.reddit.com/r/webdev/comments/1n3f49s/new_frontend_framework_just_dropped/#:~:text=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub,like%20syntax%20with%20inline)
(from the search snippet) -- likely asking if Ripple components can be
exported as custom elements. This suggests interest in how Ripple could
interoperate or whether it can output standard web components. That
capability isn't built-in yet (to our knowledge), but given the
architecture it could be possible for the compiler to have a mode to
produce custom elements.

**Scoped CSS and Structure:** Each Ripple component can contain a
`<style>` tag with CSS, which the compiler scopes to that
component[\[42\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=Styling)[\[43\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=%3Cdiv%20class%3D).
This is similar to Svelte or Vue's single-file components style scoping.
Under the hood, the compiler might auto-generate unique class names or
attributes to apply styles only to the component's DOM. This adds to
modularity -- styles don't leak out, and you can co-locate styles with
markup for better maintainability. It's worth noting that because the
style is within the component function, it might feel like writing HTML
within JS, which not all developers love, but tools format and highlight
it properly (Prettier support
exists[\[38\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=memory%20usage%20,modules)).
The design decision to embed styles suggests Ripple aims to be a
complete solution (like Svelte/Vue) rather than just a view library --
you can encapsulate everything needed for a component (logic, template,
styles) in one `.ripple` file.

**Missing Features (and Plans):** As of now, Ripple is missing some
major features such as **Server-Side Rendering (SSR)**. The author notes
SSR is not implemented yet (only client-side rendering for
now)[\[44\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=Missing%20Features).
SSR would require the framework to render components to HTML on the
server and then hydrate them on the client by attaching to the existing
DOM and reactivating the signals. This is a non-trivial addition --
frameworks like SolidJS have done it, so it's certainly feasible, but it
adds complexity in both the compiler (to generate hydration code) and
runtime (to synchronize server and client state). Lack of SSR is a
limitation for any framework intended for production use in web apps
where SEO or first paint performance matters. Another aspect the README
mentions is that types are "very raw" at this
stage[\[45\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=,we%27re%20getting%20around%20to%20it).
That means the internal code might not be fully typed or the public APIs
might not have complete type definitions. This is understandable in an
alpha-stage project and will improve, but it's a maintainability
consideration -- strong type definitions are crucial for a TS-first
framework to ensure reliability as it scales.

**Maintainability:** From a framework designer's perspective, combining
many ideas (JSX, signals, custom control flow, etc.) means there is a
lot of surface area to maintain. However, Dominic's approach of
implementing it as a one-week prototype suggests much of this came
together using prior art and known patterns. The **risk** is that as the
project grows, each of these innovative pieces (e.g., the custom parser
for control flow) might need optimization and edge-case handling. On the
plus side, having a single author with a clear vision often results in a
cohesive design (Ripple does feel cohesive -- all features revolve
around making components more expressive and efficient). But community
adoption and contributions will be important to harden the framework.
The codebase being modular (with clear packages) will help new
contributors focus on areas (someone could work on the compiler or on
the runtime reactive system in isolation, for example). The
**extensibility** for users (not contributors) is mainly about building
on top of what Ripple gives -- since it's not yet an ecosystem, there
aren't plugins/middleware as you see in older frameworks. If someone
wanted to extend Ripple (say, add a router or state management on top),
they would treat it like how one uses React or Solid -- by writing
additional components or using context.

In summary, Ripple's code structure reflects a modern compiled
framework: separate phases for compile vs runtime, heavy use of
TypeScript for tooling, and an integrated approach to styling and
structure. This yields a potentially very **productive environment**
(good DX with IntelliSense and familiar coding patterns) but comes at
the cost of needing a custom build process and the framework team (or
community) having to maintain quite a bit of custom tooling. Next, we
compare how Ripple's design contrasts with React, SolidJS, and Svelte --
the three frameworks it draws inspiration from -- and analyze the
trade-offs it makes relative to each.

## Comparison with React, SolidJS, and Svelte

Ripple explicitly attempts to combine "the best parts" of **React,
Solid, and
Svelte**[\[3\]](https://dev.to/ramunarasinga-11/ripple-the-elegant-typescript-ui-framework-11n4#:~:text=Ripple%20is%20a%20TypeScript%20UI,combines%20them%20into%20one%20package),
so examining it alongside these is instructive. Each of those frameworks
has distinct paradigms:

- **React (with JSX + Virtual DOM):** Emphasizes a declarative UI as a
  function of state, using a virtual DOM diff to apply changes. State
  updates are explicit (setState or hooks) and batched, and the
  component re-renders produce a new tree of elements each time.
- **SolidJS (JSX + Signals):** Uses JSX but no virtual DOM; instead it
  has fine-grained reactive signals (explicitly created by the
  developer) and compiles JSX to direct DOM manipulations. Components in
  Solid are functions called once; updates are handled by signals
  triggering effects.
- **Svelte (Template DSL + Compiler):** Uses a custom template language
  (HTML-like with `{#if}` and `{#each}` etc.) and a compiler that
  produces imperative code for updates. State in Svelte is typically
  local component state (declared as variables) and reactivity is
  triggered by assignments or special `$:` reactive declarations. No
  virtual DOM; updates are direct.

Ripple can be seen as an attempt to unify these approaches: it uses
**JSX (like React/Solid)**, it has **fine-grained reactivity (like
Solid/Svelte)**, and it compiles to efficient code (like Svelte/Solid's
compilation steps) rather than interpreting a VDOM at runtime.

### Ripple vs React

**Architecture:** React relies on a **coarse-grained reconciliation** --
any state change causes a component (and its children) to re-render
(i.e., re-execute the function or render method) and then a diff
determines what DOM updates to perform. Ripple avoids this by linking
state directly to DOM updates, which generally results in far fewer
computations. For example, if a small piece of state changes, React will
re-run not only that component's rendering but also potentially many
child components (unless they are memoized). Ripple will instead trigger
only the effect or DOM binding associated with that state. This means
Ripple can offer much better performance for UIs with frequent updates
or large component trees, as it doesn't repeatedly rebuild whole
subtrees in memory. It also means **no need for memoization or
shouldComponentUpdate** optimizations -- updates don't propagate unless
you use the state in that place. The trade-off is that React's model is
simpler to conceptualize as a one-way data flow on each render;
debugging in React often means just looking at props/state at re-render
time. In Ripple, debugging might involve understanding the reactive
graph -- e.g., why didn't this update trigger here? However, because
Ripple's reactivity is largely implicit and tracked for you, it may
actually reduce certain classes of bugs (like forgetting to update
something in React's setState, or incorrectly optimizing a
shouldComponentUpdate).

**Syntax and Developer Experience:** React's JSX is extremely popular,
but it has limitations -- you can't put statements like `if` or `for`
directly; you must use `{ condition ? <A/> : <B/> }` or
`{items.map(...)}`. Ripple's JSX-like syntax lifts these limitations by
allowing *any* JS code in the component body. That means a Ripple
component looks a bit like writing a script where markup and logic
intermix freely. Developers coming from React might find this liberating
or potentially confusing. For instance, in React you know that the
return JSX is a fairly straightforward, declarative structure, and all
the logic must be in the component function outside the JSX (or in
curly-brace expressions). In Ripple, one can declare local variables
*inside* the JSX block, use console.log or even a `debugger` statement
right in the
template[\[46\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=,hello%20world).
This is actually a powerful debugging aid -- the docs mention you can
put `debugger;` in the template to break during
rendering[\[46\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=,hello%20world),
which you cannot easily do in React's JSX (since it's just an
expression). So from a framework designer perspective, Ripple offers a
more imperative feel *within* a declarative UI, whereas React strictly
separates the two. Some may view that as mixing concerns (one HN
commenter jokingly said "we've come full circle and reinvented PHP" when
seeing logic and markup
interwoven)[\[47\]](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=45063176#:~:text=creshal%20%20%20202%20,199%20%5B%E2%80%93).
But it's optional -- you can keep logic in pure TS above and keep the
template portion clean if you want. The key is Ripple gives the *choice*
to use native control flow which is arguably clearer for complex
conditions.

React does not have built-in reactivity beyond state/props, and you
often need external libraries for things like global state or more
granular subscriptions. Ripple includes context (like React's Context
API, but simpler with a get/set API) and fine-grained signals
out-of-the-box. This means patterns that require Redux or MobX in React
might be achievable with just Ripple's core in a simpler way. For
example, you could create a `RippleSet` of items and any component using
it will update when it changes, without useEffect or Redux actions. The
**trade-off** here is that React's explicitness with state management
(especially with hooks and pure functions) can sometimes make the flow
of data easier to trace. Ripple's more implicit reactivity might be
harder for a React dev at first -- e.g., the notion that updating an
object property can directly re-render a piece of UI without a specific
trigger might be new. However, given Dominic's involvement with React
Hooks, one could say Ripple's design addresses some of the ergonomic
issues React hooks have (like dependency arrays, complex state update
logic) by eliminating them entirely.

**Performance and Scalability:** For UI complexity, React has a mature
ecosystem and can handle large apps, but often at the cost of structure
(using lots of context providers, reducer patterns, etc.). Ripple's
approach could scale differently: because components don't re-run on
every update, the cost of deep component hierarchies is lower. Also, the
absence of a virtual DOM means lower memory overhead per component
(React carries around a lot of metadata for reconciliation). That said,
React's diff is quite optimized for many use cases, and many apps are
already plenty fast with React. Ripple's fine-grained system will shine
in cases of frequent updates (e.g. animations, real-time data, large
tables updating cells) where React might struggle without additional
optimization. The trade-off is that Ripple's approach is young and
unproven at scale -- things like developer tooling (devtools to inspect
state), SSR as mentioned, and community patterns are not established yet
as they are in React. So a framework designer would note that while
Ripple potentially outperforms React in raw terms, adopting it in a huge
project today would carry risk due to its immature tooling and the lack
of battle-tested patterns.

### Ripple vs SolidJS

SolidJS is perhaps Ripple's closest cousin. Both aim for maximal runtime
performance via fine-grained reactivity and compile-time optimizations.
In fact, a Solid user will find many concepts in Ripple familiar:
signals (though in Solid you call `createSignal`, in Ripple you use
`$`), effects (`effect(() => ...)` exists in both), and no vDOM. The
**differences lie in ergonomics and syntax:**

- **Reactivity API:** Solid's approach is more explicit -- you create
  signals and derive computations manually. Ripple automates this. For
  example, in Solid you might do:

<!-- -->

- const [count, setCount] = createSignal(0);
      const double = createMemo(() => count() * 2);

  and use `{count()}` in JSX. In Ripple, you'd write:

      let $count = 0;
      let $double = $count * 2;
      <span>{$count}</span><span>{$double}</span>

  and the rest is taken care of. Ripple's syntax removes the need for
  the `()` function calls around signal values (which Solid requires) by
  making the reactive variables act like normal variables. This is a big
  DX win -- the code is more readable (you don't see a bunch of `()` all
  over) and it feels more like writing regular JavaScript. The trade-off
  here is that Solid's explicitness can sometimes make it clearer what
  is reactive and what is not (though the `$` in Ripple serves a similar
  purpose). Solid also gives you fine control: e.g., you can decide not
  to create a signal and just use a prop directly if it doesn't need
  reactivity, etc. In Ripple, *everything that's stateful is a signal by
  default*, which might incur a tiny overhead even if you didn't need
  reactivity. That overhead is usually negligible, but it's a
  consideration.

<!-- -->

- **JSX and Control Flow:** Solid uses standard JSX, which means it
  cannot have real `if`/`for` statements in the JSX; instead it provides
  control flow components (`<Show>`, `<For>` etc.) or encourages using
  ternaries/Array.map. Ripple's compiler-based approach allows actual
  `if` and loops. This makes Ripple's components look more like an
  imperative script that outputs JSX, whereas Solid's components are
  closer to a pure JSX return (like React) with some calls. A Solid
  developer might find Ripple's approach more convenient for writing
  complex UI logic. Conversely, someone might argue that Solid's
  separation (using `<For>` components) is more explicit and functional.
  It's somewhat subjective which is better. From a design perspective,
  Ripple's approach reduces "API surface" (no need for a special `<For>`
  component or `<Show>` helper -- you use the language itself), which is
  elegant. The cost is building that logic into the compiler. Solid
  opted to keep JSX unextended and instead provide helpers as part of
  its library. Ripple opts to extend the language, which can ultimately
  be more powerful (you can do things like early returns or breaks in
  loops naturally). This is a design choice where Ripple leans on
  compile-time magic to make the developer's life easier.

- **Performance:** Both Ripple and Solid aim for top-tier performance.
  It's too early to measure Ripple, but given the similarities, we can
  assume it's in the same ballpark as Solid (which is known for being
  extremely fast). One area to watch is memory and GC: Solid's
  fine-grained system creates a lot of small closures (for signals,
  computations). Ripple will too (each `$` likely corresponds to some
  signal object or proxy). Svelte, by contrast, compiles away most of
  that into straight-line code and tends to have a bit less GC overhead.
  It's possible Ripple inherits some of that overhead, but modern
  engines handle it well and the trade for simpler code is usually worth
  it. Solid has matured features like SSR and a rich ecosystem of
  bindings (router, etc.); Ripple will need to catch up on those fronts.

- **Learning Curve:** SolidJS has a steeper learning curve for newcomers
  because of the need to understand signals and the nuance that reading
  a signal requires calling it like a function. Ripple simplifies this;
  if you know basic JS and React's JSX, you can pick up Ripple's \$
  reactive variables quickly. One might say Ripple is trying to provide
  Solid's performance *with Svelte's ease-of-use*. A comment on Hacker
  News framed Ripple as being "in the middle of a better React and a
  worse
  Svelte"[\[48\]](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=45063176#:~:text=I%20very%20happily%20use%20Svelte,React%20and%20a%20worse%20Svelte)
  -- implying perhaps that it doesn't clearly improve on Solid (for
  those who are fine with Solid's explicitness) while also not being as
  radically simple as Svelte's templating for others. However, others
  see it as *"an excellent synthesis between React and
  Svelte."*[\[49\]](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=45063176#:~:text=I%20have%20always%20been%20attentive,synthesis%20between%20React%20and%20Svelte)
  It really depends on perspective. From a framework design stance,
  Ripple's differences with Solid are subtle but geared towards
  approachability and DX: fewer imported APIs, using language structures
  instead of wrapper components, and integration with TypeScript's
  syntax.

In summary, Ripple and Solid are philosophically aligned (both aim to
maximize efficiency via reactivity). Ripple diverges by taking on more
compilation duties to make the developer write less "framework code" (no
manual signals, no `<For>`). The trade-off is that Solid's design is
closer to plain JS (no special file extension needed, aside from a Babel
plugin for JSX) whereas Ripple introduces a custom language layer
(.ripple files). A SolidJS author can use plain `.jsx` and just needs to
include Solid's library; a Ripple author must use the Ripple compiler
toolchain. This is the classic ease-of-use vs. integration trade-off --
Svelte made a similar choice and has been successful in that regard. If
Ripple's enhancements are compelling enough (and tooling solid enough),
developers may prefer it over Solid for the convenience.

### Ripple vs Svelte

Ripple shares a lot of DNA with Svelte (which is natural given Dominic's
contributions to Svelte 5). Both have their own component file format
and a compile step, and both aim to optimize updates by knowing at
build-time what can change. There are key differences though:

- **Syntax and Language:** Svelte's single-file components (.svelte) are
  *HTML-first*: you write an HTML-like template, script, and style.
  Svelte's template uses its own syntax for reactivity (`{#if}`,
  `{#each}`, etc., and `$:` labels for reactive declarations). Ripple's
  `.ripple` files are *TypeScript-first*: you write a function with JSX
  and any JS logic you want. One could say Ripple's syntax is closer to
  standard programming (with real `if` statements, etc.), whereas
  Svelte's is a bit more DSL-like. For example, in Svelte you'd write:

<!-- -->

- {#if condition}
        <Foo />
      {:else}
        <Bar />
      {/if}

  In Ripple, you just write a normal `if/else` in curly braces. Both end
  up doing the same thing. Ripple's choice here may appeal to developers
  who prefer using one language (TypeScript) for everything. Svelte's
  templating, while very ergonomic, introduces a learning curve to
  understand its special syntax. Ripple avoids introducing new keywords
  like `{#if}` -- it relies on the programmer's existing knowledge of
  JS. The trade-off is that Svelte's syntax is very concise and designed
  for clarity in markup -- some might find it cleaner to see
  `{#each item in items}` than to read a block of JS inside JSX. It's
  somewhat subjective, but Ripple definitely caters to those who "think
  in code" rather than in a template mindset. As one comment noted,
  *"It's neither HTML nor JS. \[Svelte is\] Still a bit confusing...
  Ripple's template syntax on reading it makes sense in a way that JSX
  never
  did"*[\[50\]](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=45063176#:~:text=pbowyer%20%20%2036%20,next%20%5B%E2%80%93)
  -- highlighting that different people will resonate with different
  approaches. From a framework design perspective, Ripple tries to give
  the best of both: the **familiar JSX** (so no completely new template
  language) and the **flexibility of Svelte's blocks** (by using native
  JS blocks).

<!-- -->

- **Reactivity:** In Svelte (up to v3/4), reactivity is largely driven
  by the compiler analyzing variable assignments. If you assign to a
  component-level variable, Svelte triggers updates. Svelte 5 (in
  development) is introducing signals as a runtime concept, which makes
  it closer to Ripple's model. Ripple explicitly uses signals (\$
  variables) in a way that's quite analogous to Svelte's approach but
  with a slightly different syntax. For instance, Svelte uses a `$:`
  label for derived values:

<!-- -->

- let count = 0;
      $: double = count * 2;

  Ripple uses `let $double = $count * 2;` -- semantically similar. One
  could say Ripple's `$` prefix is more uniform (applies to any reactive
  var) whereas Svelte has some distinct concepts (stores, `$:` etc.).
  Also, Svelte requires you to mark stores with a `$storeName` when
  using them in template; Ripple's reactive variables act more
  seamlessly (no need to call something like `count.set(value)` as you
  do with Svelte's writable stores; you just do `$count = value`). This
  again shows Ripple's push for *minimal ceremony*. A design trade-off
  here: Svelte's compile-time only reactivity (in v3) means you can't
  create reactive values outside of components easily; you must use
  stores or context. Ripple's signals can exist outside via those
  transport functions, giving more flexibility akin to a reactive
  library. On the flip side, Svelte's simpler model (at least in v3)
  meant no runtime graph of dependencies -- it was all compile-time
  generated subscription calls, which is highly efficient. Ripple (and
  Solid) maintain a reactive graph at runtime. The overhead of that is
  usually small (a few extra objects/functions to track), but Svelte's
  stance was to avoid it entirely. However, Svelte 5's signals indicate
  they saw value in a unified reactive system. So Ripple is in line with
  the direction Svelte is going, but Ripple already demonstrates it in a
  JSX context.

<!-- -->

- **Performance:** Both aim to update only what's necessary. Traditional
  benchmarks have shown Svelte and Solid neck-and-neck at the top of
  performance charts, each with slight edge cases. Ripple, using a
  similar strategy, likely also achieves "all updates are O(1) relative
  to app size" (meaning updating a piece of state doesn't get slower as
  your app grows, because you're not re-rendering more stuff). Svelte's
  advantage was always producing very optimized output and small bundle
  sizes (no big runtime). Ripple will have a runtime (for signals,
  etc.), so its bundle might be a bit larger than pure Svelte for the
  same component. But it might not be significant -- Solid's runtime is
  only a few KB, Ripple's could be similar or slightly more with the
  collections and such.

- **Two-Way Binding & Other Features:** Svelte has a
  `<Component bind:prop={localVar}>` syntax to two-way bind props.
  Ripple offers a variant of this via the `$prop:={get, set}` accessor
  syntax[\[51\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=Furthermore%2C%20just%20like%20property%20accessors,first%2C%20separated%20using%20a%20comma)[\[52\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=let%20%24name%20%3D%20%27Bob%27%3B).
  That is arguably more verbose than Svelte's sugar but more explicit
  (you see exactly how the child's updates call back). It shows Ripple
  isn't afraid to introduce new syntax where needed, but tries to keep
  it in the spirit of JavaScript (using a colon to separate getter and
  setter function in an object literal-like way). This feature is niche
  but important for certain patterns (forms, for instance). It's the
  kind of design choice a framework makes to either encourage one-way
  data flow only (React is strict about one-way) or allow two-way for
  convenience (Vue and Svelte allow it). Ripple opting to allow two-way
  binding means it acknowledges common UI use-cases and provides a
  built-in solution, again at the cost of some complexity in the
  template syntax. From a designer's viewpoint, this is a pragmatic
  inclusion: it doesn't force the framework ideology onto the developer
  (if two-way makes sense, you can do it safely with Ripple).

- **Ecosystem and Tooling:** Svelte is quite mature now with a rich
  ecosystem, whereas Ripple is just starting. A direct comparison has to
  note that Svelte has things like devtools, a robust compiler with
  years of bug fixes, SSR support, and a community. Ripple has the
  advantage of hindsight and can experiment freely (since it's new). For
  example, Ripple learned from Svelte to implement error boundaries via
  `try/catch` in
  templates[\[53\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=Try%20blocks%20work%20to%20build,block)[\[54\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=,e)
  -- something Svelte didn't have until recently. It also takes Svelte's
  idea of scoped styles and runs with it. But Ripple's challenge will be
  to match the polish. It does have an immediate advantage for TS users
  because everything is TS; Svelte can be used with TS but requires a
  bit more configuration (and historically had some typing issues).
  Ripple's author explicitly mentions *better DX not only for humans,
  but also for LLMs* due to its TS-first
  approach[\[4\]](https://dev.to/ramunarasinga-11/ripple-the-elegant-typescript-ui-framework-11n4#:~:text=Ripple%20was%20designed%20to%20be,humans%2C%20but%20also%20for%20LLMs)
  -- an interesting point that suggests code being more
  machine-understandable when it's all in TS. (This could mean that
  tools like GitHub Copilot or GPT-based assistants might have an easier
  time parsing a `.ripple` component than a Svelte component, which is
  plausible since `.ripple` is closer to regular code.)

In summary, **Ripple vs Svelte** comes down to template style and
explicitness. Ripple is like a "Svelte with JSX" in many ways. Svelte's
design might appeal to those who prefer minimal JavaScript in their
component files and a more designer-friendly format, whereas Ripple's
might appeal to those who prefer a single unified language (TypeScript)
and more free-form coding. Both aim for similar runtime characteristics.
For a framework designer, Ripple's approach means heavier reliance on
the TypeScript compiler/AST and possibly more runtime (to support things
like dynamic control flow) as opposed to Svelte which tries to
pre-compute as much as possible at compile time. Each choice has its
pros/cons, but both are valid routes to achieving reactive UIs without a
virtual DOM.

## Strengths and Innovative Design Choices

Ripple introduces several compelling ideas and improvements that can be
seen as strengths:

- **Ergonomic Fine-Grained Reactivity:** By using the `$`-prefix
  convention, Ripple achieves fine-grained reactive updates (as in
  Solid/Svelte) without burdening the developer with an API. State
  management is very intuitive -- *"variables prefixed with* `$` *are
  automatically
  reactive"*[\[9\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=Variables%20prefixed%20with%20,automatically%20reactive)
  -- and this lowers the learning curve for achieving complex
  reactivity. The fact that derived values and effects "just work" by
  reading `$` variables is a huge plus for developer productivity. It
  reduces mental overhead around synchronization and makes the code more
  declarative (describe relationships, and let the framework handle the
  rest). In essence, Ripple's reactive model provides the performance of
  granular updates with the simplicity of just writing assignments. This
  is a significant design accomplishment, synthesizing the lessons from
  prior reactive systems.

- **Expressive and Familiar Syntax:** Ripple's JSX-like templating with
  embedded control flow yields a very expressive component syntax.
  Developers can use plain JavaScript logic (conditionals, loops,
  try-catch) directly in the UI
  definition[\[7\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=If%20statements)[\[23\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=For%20statements).
  This is innovative because it merges the best of two worlds: the
  **declarative clarity** of JSX/templates and the **imperative power**
  of JS when needed. It avoids the need for separate loop/conditional
  components or syntax, which makes code easier to follow. A UI
  element's visibility or repetition is controlled by the same language
  constructs developers use elsewhere, improving consistency. Moreover,
  the ability to declare local variables and even use debugging
  statements right inside the template is a boon for development and
  readability[\[46\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=,hello%20world).
  This unified approach (no arbitrary lines between "markup" and "code")
  is arguably more elegant than frameworks that have a separate
  templating language with its own rules.

- **Performance by Design:** Ripple's architecture is tuned for
  performance from the ground up. Fine-grain updates mean it avoids
  unnecessary work. It also includes optimizations like event delegation
  out of the box for common
  events[\[34\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=,Ripple%20to%20improve%20runtime%20performance),
  and presumably other micro-optimizations (perhaps static DOM parts are
  not recomputed at all, etc.). The claim of *"industry leading
  performance and memory
  usage"*[\[6\]](https://dev.to/ramunarasinga-11/ripple-the-elegant-typescript-ui-framework-11n4#:~:text=%2A%20JSX,specific%20enhancements)
  may very well hold true given the pedigree of ideas used. For a
  framework designer, Ripple demonstrates how leveraging compile-time
  knowledge (knowing exactly which state affects which DOM) can maximize
  efficiency. It validates the approach that frameworks like Svelte and
  Solid have championed -- showing that you can have a very *fast
  runtime* without making the developer write low-level code (the
  compiler bridges the gap). Ripple's early benchmarks aren't public,
  but by design it should excel in scenarios involving frequent UI
  updates or large numbers of components, thanks to no virtual DOM
  overhead and no repeated rendering work.

- **Built-in Advanced Patterns:** Ripple bakes in patterns that would
  typically require extra code or libraries in other frameworks. For
  example, error boundaries via try/catch in templates provide a
  straightforward way to handle exceptions in child
  components[\[53\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=Try%20blocks%20work%20to%20build,block)[\[54\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=,e)
  -- something that requires a special component in React or an extra
  block syntax in Svelte. Two-way binding via accessor
  props[\[51\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=Furthermore%2C%20just%20like%20property%20accessors,first%2C%20separated%20using%20a%20comma)[\[55\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=const%20setName%20%3D%20%28newName%29%20%3D,%24name%20%3D%20newName%3B)
  is another advanced pattern that comes for free, enabling parent-child
  synchronization without manual plumbing (useful for forms or
  uncontrolled inputs). Reactive Stores like `RippleArray/Set/Map` are
  also notable -- they solve common cases (e.g., adding an item to an
  array) that in other frameworks might require a workaround (like
  forcing an update or using an immutable pattern). By providing these
  out of the box, Ripple demonstrates a *comprehensive approach*: it's
  not just a minimalistic view library, but a framework that anticipates
  the practical needs of applications. This is a strength because it
  reduces the need for external state libraries or a lot of userland
  utility code.

- **TypeScript and Tooling Integration:** Being designed with TypeScript
  in mind from day one, Ripple likely offers a smoother TS experience
  than frameworks retrofitted with TS support. All examples in Ripple
  are typed, and the framework provides a VSCode extension for syntax
  and
  IntelliSense[\[37\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=VSCode%20Extension),
  which is a strong signal of prioritizing DX. This means things like
  autocompletion for prop names, catching type errors in templates,
  etc., are available. By controlling its own file format, Ripple can
  enforce compile-time checks and clear errors for things that might be
  runtime errors in other frameworks. For instance, if you forget to
  mark a prop as `$` in a child where the parent is passing a reactive
  value, the compiler could warn you. These sorts of static diagnostics
  are very valuable for maintainability, as they catch issues early. The
  presence of Prettier
  formatting[\[38\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=memory%20usage%20,modules)
  also shows the framework cares about code style consistency. All this
  makes Ripple quite *developer-friendly* despite its newness.

- **Inspirations and Learning from Others:** A meta-strength of Ripple
  is that it stands on the shoulders of giants (React, Solid, Svelte)
  and isn't afraid to combine ideas. It uses React's component model and
  event naming conventions (so React devs feel at
  home)[\[35\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=,%60onKeyDown),
  Solid's fine-grained signal logic (so it inherits that performance
  profile), and Svelte's single-file component philosophy with added
  twists like control flow and styling. This "mix and match" could have
  resulted in an incoherent design, but Ripple actually feels consistent
  and lightweight -- likely because the same person has worked deeply
  with all those technologies and picked the parts that synergize well.
  As a result, Ripple introduces itself as *"a love letter for the
  frontend
  web"*[\[1\]](https://dev.to/ramunarasinga-11/ripple-the-elegant-typescript-ui-framework-11n4#:~:text=Personally%2C%20I%20,see%20what%20I%20was%20cooking)
  and indeed it showcases innovative thinking: features like the `@use`
  decorator unify the concept of refs across multiple frameworks'
  ideas[\[31\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=Ripple%20provides%20a%20consistent%20way,to%20the%20underlying%20DOM%20element),
  and context is implemented in a straightforward get/set way likely
  learned from limitations in other Context APIs. In short, Ripple's
  design strengths lie in how it innovates by integration -- pushing the
  envelope by *removing* limitations (like static template syntax or
  clunky state APIs) and making the developer experience both powerful
  and familiar.

## Limitations and Trade-offs

Despite its promising design, Ripple comes with several **limitations
and trade-offs** that are important to consider:

- **Immaturity and Missing Features:** The most immediate limitation is
  that Ripple is **very young** and explicitly
  alpha-quality[\[5\]](https://dev.to/ramunarasinga-11/ripple-the-elegant-typescript-ui-framework-11n4#:~:text=,not%20be%20used%20in%20production).
  Key features like Server-Side Rendering are not yet
  implemented[\[44\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=Missing%20Features).
  Without SSR, any framework is a tough sell for production websites
  that need SEO or fast first paint on slow networks. Implementing
  SSR/hydration will be a complex task -- ensuring that the fine-grained
  reactive system can revive on the client to take over a
  server-rendered DOM. Until this is in place, Ripple is essentially
  confined to client-side apps, which is a narrower use-case (think
  internal tools or prototypes rather than public content-heavy sites).
  Additionally, the "very raw" typing
  situation[\[45\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=,we%27re%20getting%20around%20to%20it)
  means developers might encounter rough edges using the framework with
  TypeScript (ironic given it's TS-focused, but typical for an alpha).
  These could be incomplete type definitions or less helpful error
  messages. Over time these will improve, but currently it's a
  trade-off: you get cutting-edge features at the cost of dealing with
  some instability and potential bugs.

- **Learning Curve and Mental Model:** While Ripple tries to be familiar
  by using JS/TS syntax, it still introduces a distinct mental model.
  Developers not used to **reactive programming** may find it confusing
  that simply assigning to a variable triggers magic, or that a value
  seemingly set "once" updates later due to dependency tracking. The `$`
  notation is a clear indicator, but it's a new habit to learn. One must
  remember to mark things with `$` to make them reactive (e.g., a prop
  that needs to be reactive should be `$prop` in the
  child)[\[56\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=If%20you%20want%20a%20prop,prefix).
  Forgetting that might lead to a bug where something doesn't update,
  and the fix is non-obvious until you recall the rule. In contrast,
  React might be more verbose, but it's also more explicit about updates
  (you know you must call setState for things to happen). Ripple's
  implicit reactivity can lead to scenarios where an update triggers a
  cascade of other updates automatically -- which is powerful but can
  surprise if you don't understand the dependency graph. In large
  applications, understanding and debugging the network of effects might
  be challenging without good dev tooling. React's devtools, for
  example, let you inspect component trees and state at each re-render.
  Fine-grained systems require different tooling (e.g., Solid has a
  debugger that highlights which signals triggered what updates). Ripple
  will need similar tools; currently, those aren't mature. So early
  adopters might have to rely on console logs or the built-in
  `console.log` in effects to trace
  changes[\[57\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=function%20createDouble%28%5B%20%24count%20%5D%29%20,2)[\[58\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=effect%28%28%29%20%3D,).

- **Complexity of the Compiler and Integration:** By introducing a
  custom component syntax and compiler, Ripple inherits all the
  complexity that comes with maintaining a transpilation pipeline. This
  means for every new JavaScript/TypeScript feature, Ripple's parser
  might need updates to support it. Using Ripple also means your build
  process is a bit more complicated than using purely standard tools.
  While the provided Vite plugin and templates make it fairly easy to
  start, it's another layer where things can go wrong (for instance,
  source map issues, compatibility with other tools, etc.). It's a
  trade-off similar to using Svelte or Vue SFCs -- you gain features,
  but you're "off the beaten path" of standard JS modules. This could
  impact things like debugging (stepping through code, you might be
  stepping through generated code unless source maps are perfect) or
  using linters and other analysis tools (they may not understand
  .ripple files without updates). Essentially, the custom language
  provides power but at the cost of locking you into Ripple's ecosystem;
  you can't just open a `.ripple` file in any editor and expect it to
  understand it without the extension.

- **Ecosystem and Community:** As a new framework, Ripple lacks the
  ecosystem that React, or even Svelte, enjoys. There aren't
  off-the-shelf component libraries, router implementations, form
  utilities, etc., specifically for Ripple (at least not yet). This
  means early users might have to create more from scratch or wrap
  existing packages. For example, integrating a third-party React or Vue
  component is non-trivial -- you might need to mount it in a
  placeholder or convert it to a web component. This fragmentation is
  the classic xkcd "standards"
  problem[\[59\]](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=45063176#:~:text=sethaurus%20%20%20219%20,215%20%5B%E2%80%93)[\[60\]](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=45063176#:~:text=cronelius%20%20%20222%20,next%20%5B%E2%80%93):
  every new framework initially adds to the landscape rather than
  unifying it. Some HN comments pointed out skepticism about Ripple "not
  improving on what existing ones do" and thus adding one more choice
  without clear
  necessity[\[61\]](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=45063176#:~:text=Kudos%20to%20the%20dev%20for,this%20solves%20in%20the%20slightest)[\[48\]](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=45063176#:~:text=I%20very%20happily%20use%20Svelte,React%20and%20a%20worse%20Svelte).
  Even if Ripple is technically excellent, persuading developers to
  switch involves overcoming inertia and the network effects of existing
  frameworks. So the trade-off for a framework designer in introducing
  something like Ripple is that it might struggle to gain adoption
  unless its advantages are truly groundbreaking or it finds a niche
  where it clearly outperforms. Dominic acknowledges that Ripple is more
  of a lab for ideas, with the intent that *"maybe some of the ideas can
  be incubated back into other
  frameworks"*[\[62\]](https://dev.to/ramunarasinga-11/ripple-the-elegant-typescript-ui-framework-11n4#:~:text=Right%20now%2C%20there%20will%20be,time%20working%20on%20Svelte%205).
  In other words, Ripple might influence the ecosystem even if it
  doesn't itself become a dominant player. For users, this means betting
  on Ripple carries the risk of less long-term support or community
  knowledge -- a practical limitation.

- **Edge Cases and Overhead:** Fine-grained reactivity, while fast,
  comes with some overhead in terms of memory (lots of small
  subscriptions) and possibly execution if many signals update
  independently. If a component has, say, 50 `$` variables, Ripple is
  managing 50 reactive subscriptions and possibly computing some of them
  multiple times if not carefully structured. In React, if those 50 were
  local component state, a single re-render could update all relevant
  parts in one go (albeit less efficiently per update, but it's one
  unified pass). So there's a trade-off between *granularity and
  coordination*. Most frameworks handle this well by batching (Solid
  batches updates within an effect cycle, Svelte batches via its tick
  queue). If Ripple lacks a proper batching mechanism initially, rapid
  successive updates could lead to intermediate DOM states (e.g., if you
  do `$a++` and `$b++` sequentially, it might trigger two separate DOM
  updates). Also, implementing features like animations or transitions
  might need special handling in a fine-grained world (Svelte has a
  whole system for transitions, Ripple currently doesn't mention it).
  That means certain high-level features might be missing or require
  manual implementation.

- **Keyless List Diffing:** As noted earlier, Ripple doesn't require
  `key` props for list
  items[\[24\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=You%20can%20render%20collections%20using,prop%20like%20other%20frameworks).
  While this is convenient, it suggests either a simplistic updating
  strategy or an assumption about usage. In dynamic lists where items
  can be removed or re-ordered, lacking keys can lead to identity
  problems (the classic issue where a list reuses DOM nodes
  incorrectly). Ripple might be re-rendering lists from scratch on
  changes to avoid that, but then losing efficient reuse. This is a
  limitation in scenarios where performance for list updates matters or
  when maintaining element state (like input focus) per item is needed.
  It's not an unsolvable issue -- keys could be introduced or an
  algorithm improved -- but as of now, it's a trade-off: ease of use vs
  fine-grained list diffing.

- **Two-Way Binding Side Effects:** While Ripple's two-way binding via
  `$prop:={get,set}` is powerful, two-way data flow in general can make
  application logic harder to reason about if overused. It introduces
  implicit parent-child communication that might bypass explicit event
  handling. This is a known debate (React pointedly avoided two-way
  binding to keep data flow unidirectional). Ripple's implementation is
  explicit enough to mitigate some confusion (because you see the getter
  and setter functions), but developers could still create tightly
  coupled components with it. From a maintenance perspective, too much
  two-way binding can become a tangle (e.g., a child updating parent
  state that then flows into another child, etc., creating loops if not
  careful). It's a tool to use sparingly, but its presence means
  designers of the framework chose convenience and capability over
  enforcing a pattern -- which is fine, but it does put some
  responsibility on the developer to avoid misuse.

- **Debugging and DevTools:** Currently, debugging Ripple requires
  understanding its generated output or using console logs. If something
  isn't working (say a DOM update isn't happening), you need to consider
  whether your reactive variable was properly declared, whether it's in
  scope of a component, etc. Without official devtools, it might be
  tricky to inspect the component hierarchy or the values of signals at
  runtime. In React, you can inspect component props/state with React
  DevTools; in Svelte, you can see component state with Svelte DevTools;
  Solid is developing similar tools. Ripple will need to catch up on
  this front to improve debugging. Until then, that's a limitation one
  should be aware of -- the "re-render" step that you could break on in
  React doesn't exist in Ripple, so traditional debugging might need new
  strategies (like setting breakpoints in the effect functions or using
  the `debugger` in templates as mentioned).

In summary, the trade-offs Ripple makes include **greater complexity in
implementation for potentially simpler usage**, which is a fine balance.
It gives developers a lot of power and convenience, but at the cost of
having to trust a young system and adapt to a new way of thinking about
component updates. Many of its limitations are simply due to its newness
(lack of SSR, ecosystem, tooling) and will improve with time. Others,
like the necessity of a compile step or the slight implicitness of
reactivity, are inherent to its design philosophy. A frontend framework
designer evaluating Ripple would likely conclude that it's a bold and
thoughtfully engineered experiment that pushes the boundaries of DX and
performance, but it also demonstrates how solving one set of problems
(e.g., boilerplate, performance) can introduce new ones (e.g., debugging
complexity, need for custom tooling).

## Conclusion

Ripple is an ambitious framework that introduces innovative solutions to
longstanding challenges in frontend development. Architecturally, it
marries the reactive granularity of signal-based systems with a
developer-friendly syntax that feels like writing plain TypeScript. Its
design choices -- such as compiling a new `.ripple` component format,
using `$`-prefixed reactive variables, and allowing full JavaScript in
templates -- reflect a deep understanding of the strengths and
weaknesses of existing frameworks. From React, it retains
componentization and JSX familiarity, but discards the virtual DOM and
noisy state management. From SolidJS, it adopts high-performance
reactivity, but removes the need for manual wiring of signals. From
Svelte, it takes the idea of a compiler doing the heavy lifting, yet it
changes the single-file format to be more code-oriented and integrates
TypeScript at its core.

For frontend framework designers, Ripple offers both inspiration and
caution. It demonstrates how syntax and compile-time techniques can
greatly improve developer experience (e.g., transparent reactivity and
expressive templates). It also highlights the complexity behind that
experience -- essentially shifting what would be runtime complexity
(diffing, manual state updates) into compile-time and framework logic.
The trade-offs we discussed show that no approach is without downsides:
Ripple's fine-grained model yields speed but requires careful handling
of reactive scopes; its flexible syntax increases expressiveness but
requires a custom compiler and can blur the line between declarative and
imperative code.

In its current state, Ripple's **strengths** lie in its elegant handling
of state and updates, and the sheer convenience of its component syntax.
Its **limitations** remind us that new frameworks must prove themselves
in real-world scenarios and mature their tooling. Ripple may or may not
become a widely-used framework, but it has already achieved its goal as
a "love letter" experiment: it introduces ideas that could influence how
future frameworks evolve (indeed, concepts like first-class signals and
inline control flow are gaining traction in the community). At the very
least, Ripple provides an excellent case study in frontend framework
design, illustrating the ongoing evolution toward more efficient and
developer-friendly UI architectures.

**Sources:**

- Ripple GitHub README -- *"What is Ripple?"* and feature
  overview[\[3\]](https://dev.to/ramunarasinga-11/ripple-the-elegant-typescript-ui-framework-11n4#:~:text=Ripple%20is%20a%20TypeScript%20UI,combines%20them%20into%20one%20package)[\[4\]](https://dev.to/ramunarasinga-11/ripple-the-elegant-typescript-ui-framework-11n4#:~:text=Ripple%20was%20designed%20to%20be,humans%2C%20but%20also%20for%20LLMs)[\[6\]](https://dev.to/ramunarasinga-11/ripple-the-elegant-typescript-ui-framework-11n4#:~:text=%2A%20JSX,specific%20enhancements)
- Ripple Documentation -- reactive variables and usage of
  `$`[\[9\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=Variables%20prefixed%20with%20,automatically%20reactive)[\[11\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=Derived%20values%20are%20simply%20,combined%20different%20parts%20of%20state)
- Ripple Documentation -- control flow (`if`, `for`) and template
  examples[\[63\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=If%20statements)[\[8\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=For%20statements)
- Ripple Documentation -- event handling and performance
  note[\[34\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=,Ripple%20to%20improve%20runtime%20performance)
- Ripple Documentation -- two-way binding and accessor prop
  syntax[\[51\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=Furthermore%2C%20just%20like%20property%20accessors,first%2C%20separated%20using%20a%20comma)[\[55\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=const%20setName%20%3D%20%28newName%29%20%3D,%24name%20%3D%20newName%3B)
- Ripple Documentation -- missing features (SSR,
  types)[\[64\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=Missing%20Features)
- Reddit Discussion -- summary of Ripple's concept (mix of Svelte 5 and
  JSX)[\[65\]](https://www.reddit.com/r/webdev/comments/1n3f49s/new_frontend_framework_just_dropped/#:~:text=Ripple%20is%20a%20concoction%20of,statements%20that%20can%20embed%20templates)
- Hacker News Discussion -- perspectives on Ripple's control flow and
  design[\[28\]](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=45063176#:~:text=The%20ability%20to%20output%20JSX,it%20looks%20kinda%20like%20Rezact)[\[48\]](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=45063176#:~:text=I%20very%20happily%20use%20Svelte,React%20and%20a%20worse%20Svelte)
- Hacker News Discussion -- comment noting Ripple as a React--Svelte
  synthesis[\[49\]](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=45063176#:~:text=I%20have%20always%20been%20attentive,synthesis%20between%20React%20and%20Svelte)
- Ripple website -- feature list highlighting control flow and scoped
  styling[\[66\]](https://www.ripplejs.com/#:~:text=Ripple%20is%20a%20TypeScript%20UI,combines%20them%20into%20one%20package)[\[67\]](https://www.ripplejs.com/#:~:text=%2A%20TypeScript%20Support%20,modules)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[\[1\]](https://dev.to/ramunarasinga-11/ripple-the-elegant-typescript-ui-framework-11n4#:~:text=Personally%2C%20I%20,see%20what%20I%20was%20cooking)
[\[3\]](https://dev.to/ramunarasinga-11/ripple-the-elegant-typescript-ui-framework-11n4#:~:text=Ripple%20is%20a%20TypeScript%20UI,combines%20them%20into%20one%20package)
[\[4\]](https://dev.to/ramunarasinga-11/ripple-the-elegant-typescript-ui-framework-11n4#:~:text=Ripple%20was%20designed%20to%20be,humans%2C%20but%20also%20for%20LLMs)
[\[5\]](https://dev.to/ramunarasinga-11/ripple-the-elegant-typescript-ui-framework-11n4#:~:text=,not%20be%20used%20in%20production)
[\[6\]](https://dev.to/ramunarasinga-11/ripple-the-elegant-typescript-ui-framework-11n4#:~:text=%2A%20JSX,specific%20enhancements)
[\[62\]](https://dev.to/ramunarasinga-11/ripple-the-elegant-typescript-ui-framework-11n4#:~:text=Right%20now%2C%20there%20will%20be,time%20working%20on%20Svelte%205)
Ripple, the elegant TypeScript UI framework. - DEV Community

<https://dev.to/ramunarasinga-11/ripple-the-elegant-typescript-ui-framework-11n4>

[\[2\]](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=45063176#:~:text=pier25%20%20%2045%20,46%20%5B%E2%80%93)
[\[28\]](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=45063176#:~:text=The%20ability%20to%20output%20JSX,it%20looks%20kinda%20like%20Rezact)
[\[47\]](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=45063176#:~:text=creshal%20%20%20202%20,199%20%5B%E2%80%93)
[\[48\]](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=45063176#:~:text=I%20very%20happily%20use%20Svelte,React%20and%20a%20worse%20Svelte)
[\[49\]](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=45063176#:~:text=I%20have%20always%20been%20attentive,synthesis%20between%20React%20and%20Svelte)
[\[50\]](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=45063176#:~:text=pbowyer%20%20%2036%20,next%20%5B%E2%80%93)
[\[59\]](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=45063176#:~:text=sethaurus%20%20%20219%20,215%20%5B%E2%80%93)
[\[60\]](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=45063176#:~:text=cronelius%20%20%20222%20,next%20%5B%E2%80%93)
[\[61\]](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=45063176#:~:text=Kudos%20to%20the%20dev%20for,this%20solves%20in%20the%20slightest)
Ripple -- A TypeScript UI framework that takes the best of React, Solid,
Svelte \| Hacker News

<https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=45063176>

[\[7\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=If%20statements)
[\[8\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=For%20statements)
[\[9\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=Variables%20prefixed%20with%20,automatically%20reactive)
[\[10\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=let%20%24name%20%3D%20%27World%27%3B%20let,count%20%3D%200)
[\[11\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=Derived%20values%20are%20simply%20,combined%20different%20parts%20of%20state)
[\[12\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=Now%20given%20,reactivity%20in%20those%20cases)
[\[13\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=Object%20properties%20prefixed%20with%20,are%20also%20automatically%20reactive)
[\[14\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=However%2C%20if%20you%20need%20the,reactive%20array%20that%20Ripple%20provides)
[\[15\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=)
[\[16\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=)
[\[17\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=Effects)
[\[18\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=effect%28%28%29%20%3D)
[\[19\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=export%20component%20App%28%29%20,count%20%3D%200)
[\[20\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=)
[\[21\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=import%20,ripple)
[\[22\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=function%20createDouble%28,2)
[\[23\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=For%20statements)
[\[24\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=You%20can%20render%20collections%20using,prop%20like%20other%20frameworks)
[\[25\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=component%20Numbers%28%29%20,1%2C%202%2C%203)
[\[26\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=,button%3E)
[\[27\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=component%20Truthy%28,div%3E)
[\[29\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=Try%20statements)
[\[30\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=try%20%7B%20,reportError%28e)
[\[31\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=Ripple%20provides%20a%20consistent%20way,to%20the%20underlying%20DOM%20element)
[\[32\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=const%20ref%20%3D%20%28node%29%20%3D,node)
[\[34\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=,Ripple%20to%20improve%20runtime%20performance)
[\[35\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=,%60onKeyDown)
[\[36\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=Feel%20free%20to%20play%20around,the%20repo%2C%20you%20can%20then)
[\[37\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=VSCode%20Extension)
[\[38\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=memory%20usage%20,modules)
[\[39\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=Define%20reusable%20components%20with%20the,a%20JavaScript%20statement%2C%20as%20shown)
[\[42\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=Styling)
[\[43\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=%3Cdiv%20class%3D)
[\[44\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=Missing%20Features)
[\[45\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=,we%27re%20getting%20around%20to%20it)
[\[46\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=,hello%20world)
[\[51\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=Furthermore%2C%20just%20like%20property%20accessors,first%2C%20separated%20using%20a%20comma)
[\[52\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=let%20%24name%20%3D%20%27Bob%27%3B)
[\[53\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=Try%20blocks%20work%20to%20build,block)
[\[54\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=,e)
[\[55\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=const%20setName%20%3D%20%28newName%29%20%3D,%24name%20%3D%20newName%3B)
[\[56\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=If%20you%20want%20a%20prop,prefix)
[\[57\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=function%20createDouble%28%5B%20%24count%20%5D%29%20,2)
[\[58\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=effect%28%28%29%20%3D,)
[\[63\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=If%20statements)
[\[64\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple#:~:text=Missing%20Features)
GitHub - trueadm/ripple: the elegant TypeScript UI framework

<https://github.com/trueadm/ripple>

[\[33\]](https://www.reddit.com/r/webdev/comments/1n3f49s/new_frontend_framework_just_dropped/#:~:text=%3Cbutton%20onClick%3D%7B%28%29%20%3D%3E%20%24count,button%3E%20%3C%2Fdiv)
[\[41\]](https://www.reddit.com/r/webdev/comments/1n3f49s/new_frontend_framework_just_dropped/#:~:text=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub,like%20syntax%20with%20inline)
[\[65\]](https://www.reddit.com/r/webdev/comments/1n3f49s/new_frontend_framework_just_dropped/#:~:text=Ripple%20is%20a%20concoction%20of,statements%20that%20can%20embed%20templates)
New frontend framework just dropped! : r/webdev

<https://www.reddit.com/r/webdev/comments/1n3f49s/new_frontend_framework_just_dropped/>

[\[40\]](https://github.com/trueadm/ripple/issues/158#:~:text=GitHub%20github,Design%20ripples%20%C2%B7%20ripplejs%2Fripple)
I think the name of this framework is already taken #158 - GitHub

<https://github.com/trueadm/ripple/issues/158>

[\[66\]](https://www.ripplejs.com/#:~:text=Ripple%20is%20a%20TypeScript%20UI,combines%20them%20into%20one%20package)
[\[67\]](https://www.ripplejs.com/#:~:text=%2A%20TypeScript%20Support%20,modules)
RippleJS

<https://www.ripplejs.com/>
pandoc version 3.8